-----------------------DATABASE------------------------
database- is a container
In order to maintain consistency in a database, before and after the transaction, certain properties are followed. 
types of sql command
SQL commands---->
					1. Data Definition Language (DDL)
					2. Data Manipulation Language (DML)
					3. Transaction Control Language (TCL)
					4. Data Control Language (DCL)

1.DDL (Data Definition Language) :
Data Definition Language is used to define the database structure or schema. 
DDL is also used to specify additional properties of the data. 
The storage structure and access methods used by the database system by a set of statements in a special type 
of DDL called a data storage and definition language.
These statements define the implementation details of the database schema, which are usually hidden from the users. 
The data values stored in the database must satisfy certain consistency constraints. 

2. DML (Data Manipulation Language) :
DML statements are used for managing data with in schema objects. 
DML are of two types :-> 
	1. Procedural DMLs : require a user to specify what data are needed and how to get those data.
	2. Declarative DMLs (also referred as Non-procedural DMLs) : Require a user to specify what data are needed without specifying how to get those data. Declarative DMLs are usually easier to learn and use than procedural DMLs.However, since a user does not have to specify how to get the data, the database system has to figure out an efficient means of accessing data.
DML commands are used to modify the database. It is responsible for all form of changes in the database.
The command of DML is not auto-committed that means it can't permanently save all the changes in the database. They can be rollback.
Here are some commands that come under DML:
a. INSERT	b. UPDATE	c. DELETE	d. SELECT

a. INSERT: The INSERT statement is a SQL query. It is used to insert data into the row of a table.
syntax: example
insert into student_info (id,name,salary,age,email) values(101,'BBBB',2652.35,24,'bbbb@gmail.com');

insert into student_info values(104,'dddd',5324.20,32,'dddd@gmail.com','Beed'),
(105,'eeee',2536.25,25,'eeee@gmail.com','Jalna'),(106,'ffff',3256.2,21,'ffff@gmail.com','Fardapur');

b. UPDATE: This command is used to update or modify the value of a column in the table.
syntax:
update student_info set address='Nanded',salary=32562.25 where id=106;

c. DELETE: It is used to remove one or more row from a table.
syntax:
delete from student_info where address='solapur';

3. TCL (Transaction Control Language) :
Transaction Control Language commands are used to manage transactions in the database. 
These are used to manage the changes made by DML-statements. 
It also allows statements to be grouped together into logical transactions.

Examples of TCL commands – 
COMMIT: Commit command is used to permanently save any transaction
            into the database.
ROLLBACK: This command restores the database to last committed state.
            It is also used with savepoint command to jump to a savepoint
            in a transaction.
SAVEPOINT: Savepoint command is used to temporarily save a transaction so
            that you can rollback to that point whenever necessary.

4. DCL (Data Control Language) :
A Data Control Language is a syntax similar to a computer programming language used to control access 
to data stored in a database (Authorization). 
In particular, it is a component of Structured Query Language (SQL). 

Examples of DCL commands : 
GRANT: allow specified users to perform specified tasks.
Example
GRANT SELECT, UPDATE ON MY_TABLE TO SOME_USER, ANOTHER_USER;  

REVOKE: cancel previously granted or denied permissions.
Example
REVOKE SELECT, UPDATE ON MY_TABLE FROM USER1, USER2; 

















These are called ACID properties. 
				A=Atomocity